doc/examples/connectome.rst, before:

.. note::
    :class: sphx-glr-download-link-note

    Click :ref:`here <sphx_glr_download_auto_examples_connectome.py>` to download the full example code
.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-example-title

.. _sphx_glr_auto_examples_connectome.py:


Example script to show some of the possibilities of the Connectome class. We
connect neurons, and get the Connectome with a GetConnections call. To get
a better understanding of the connections, we plot the weights between the
source and targets.


.. code-block:: default


    import nest
    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    import numpy as np


    def makeMatrix(sources, targets, weights):
        """
        Returns a matrix with the weights between the source and target gids.
        """
        aa = np.zeros((max(sources)+1, max(targets)+1))

        for src, trg, wght in zip(sources, targets, weights):
            aa[src, trg] += wght

        return aa


    def plotMatrix(srcs, tgts, weights, title, pos):
        """
        Plots weight matrix.
        """
        plt.subplot(pos)
        plt.matshow(makeMatrix(srcs, tgts, weights), fignum=False)
        plt.xlim([min(tgts)-0.5, max(tgts)+0.5])
        plt.xlabel('target')
        plt.ylim([max(srcs)+0.5, min(srcs)-0.5])
        plt.ylabel('source')
        plt.title(title)
        plt.colorbar(fraction=0.046, pad=0.04)


    """
    Start with a simple, one_to_one example.
    We create the neurons, connect them, and get the connections. From this we can
    get the connected sources, targets, and weights. The corresponding matrix will
    be the identity matrix, as we have a one_to_one connection.
    """
    nest.ResetKernel()

    nrns = nest.Create('iaf_psc_alpha', 10)

    nest.Connect(nrns, nrns, 'one_to_one')
    conns = nest.GetConnections(nrns, nrns)  # This returns a Connectome
    # We can get desired information of the Connectome with simple get() call.
    g = conns.get(['source', 'target', 'weight'])
    srcs = g['source']
    tgts = g['target']
    weights = g['weight']

    # Plot the matrix consisting of the weights between the sources and targets
    plt.figure(figsize=(12, 10))
    plotMatrix(srcs, tgts, weights, 'Uniform weight', 121)

    """
    Add some weights to the connections, and plot the updated weight matrix.
    """
    # We can set data of the connections with a simple set() call.
    w = [{'weight': x*1.0} for x in range(1, 11)]
    conns.set(w)
    weights = conns.get('weight')

    plotMatrix(srcs, tgts, weights, 'Set weight', 122)

    """
    We can also plot an all_to_all connection, with uniformly distributed weights,
    and different number of sources and targets.
    """
    nest.ResetKernel()

    pre = nest.Create('iaf_psc_alpha', 10)
    post = nest.Create('iaf_psc_delta', 5)
    nest.Connect(pre, post,
                 syn_spec={'weight':
                           {'distribution': 'uniform', 'low': 0.5, 'high': 4.5}})

    # Get a Connectome with all connections
    conns = nest.GetConnections()
    srcs = conns.get('source')
    tgts = conns.get('target')
    weights = conns.get('weight')

    plt.figure(figsize=(12, 10))
    plotMatrix(srcs, tgts, weights, 'All to all connection', 111)

    """
    Lastly, we'll do an exmple that is a bit more complex. We connect different
    neurons with different rules, synapse models and weight distributions, and get
    different Connectomes by calling GetConnections with different inputs.
    """
    nest.ResetKernel()

    nrns = nest.Create('iaf_psc_alpha', 15)
    nest.Connect(nrns[:5], nrns[:5],
                 'one_to_one',
                 {'synapse_model': 'stdp_synapse',
                  'weight': {'distribution': 'normal', 'mu': 5.0, 'sigma': 2.0}})
    nest.Connect(nrns[:10], nrns[5:12],
                 {'rule': 'pairwise_bernoulli', 'p': 0.4},
                 {'weight': 4.0})
    nest.Connect(nrns[5:10], nrns[:5],
                 {'rule': 'fixed_total_number', 'N': 5},
                 {'weight': 3.0})
    nest.Connect(nrns[10:], nrns[:12],
                 'all_to_all',
                 {'synapse_model': 'stdp_synapse',
                  'weight': {'distribution': 'uniform', 'low': 1., 'high': 5.}})
    nest.Connect(nrns, nrns[12:],
                 {'rule': 'fixed_indegree', 'indegree': 3})

    # First get a Connectome consisting of all the connections
    conns = nest.GetConnections()
    srcs = conns.source()
    tgts = conns.target()  # source() and target() are iterators
    weights = conns.get('weight')

    plt.figure(figsize=(14, 12))
    plotMatrix(list(srcs), list(tgts), weights, 'All connections', 221)

    # Get Connectome consisting of a subset of connections
    conns = nest.GetConnections(nrns[:10], nrns[:10])
    g = conns.get(['source', 'target', 'weight'])
    srcs = g['source']
    tgts = g['target']
    weights = g['weight']

    plotMatrix(srcs, tgts, weights, 'Connections of the first ten neurons', 222)

    # Get Connectome consisting of just the stdp_synapses
    conns = nest.GetConnections(synapse_model='stdp_synapse')
    g = conns.get(['source', 'target', 'weight'])
    srcs = g['source']
    tgts = g['target']
    weights = g['weight']

    plotMatrix(srcs, tgts, weights, 'Connections with stdp_synapse', 223)

    # Get Connectome consisting of the fixed_total_number connections, but set
    # weight before plotting
    conns = nest.GetConnections(nrns[5:10], nrns[:5])
    w = [{'weight': x*1.0} for x in range(1, 6)]
    conns.set(w)
    g = conns.get(['source', 'target', 'weight'])
    srcs = g['source']
    tgts = g['target']
    weights = g['weight']

    plotMatrix(srcs, tgts, weights, 'fixed_total_number, set weight', 224)


    plt.show()


.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-timing

   **Total running time of the script:** ( 0 minutes  0.000 seconds)


.. _sphx_glr_download_auto_examples_connectome.py:


.. only :: html

 .. container:: sphx-glr-footer
    :class: sphx-glr-footer-example



  .. container:: sphx-glr-download

     :download:`Download Python source code: connectome.py <connectome.py>`



  .. container:: sphx-glr-download

     :download:`Download Jupyter notebook: connectome.ipynb <connectome.ipynb>`


.. only:: html

 .. rst-class:: sphx-glr-signature

    `Gallery generated by Sphinx-Gallery <https://sphinx-gallery.github.io>`_

Commit message:

change GIDCollection and Connectome to Node and Synapse collection respectively

doc/examples/connectome.rst, after:

.. note::
    :class: sphx-glr-download-link-note

    Click :ref:`here <sphx_glr_download_auto_examples_connectome.py>` to download the full example code
.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-example-title

.. _sphx_glr_auto_examples_connectome.py:


Example script to show some of the possibilities of the SynapseCollection class. We
connect neurons, and get the SynapseCollection with a GetConnections call. To get
a better understanding of the connections, we plot the weights between the
source and targets.


.. code-block:: default


    import nest
    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    import numpy as np


    def makeMatrix(sources, targets, weights):
        """
        Returns a matrix with the weights between the source and target gids.
        """
        aa = np.zeros((max(sources)+1, max(targets)+1))

        for src, trg, wght in zip(sources, targets, weights):
            aa[src, trg] += wght

        return aa


    def plotMatrix(srcs, tgts, weights, title, pos):
        """
        Plots weight matrix.
        """
        plt.subplot(pos)
        plt.matshow(makeMatrix(srcs, tgts, weights), fignum=False)
        plt.xlim([min(tgts)-0.5, max(tgts)+0.5])
        plt.xlabel('target')
        plt.ylim([max(srcs)+0.5, min(srcs)-0.5])
        plt.ylabel('source')
        plt.title(title)
        plt.colorbar(fraction=0.046, pad=0.04)


    """
    Start with a simple, one_to_one example.
    We create the neurons, connect them, and get the connections. From this we can
    get the connected sources, targets, and weights. The corresponding matrix will
    be the identity matrix, as we have a one_to_one connection.
    """
    nest.ResetKernel()

    nrns = nest.Create('iaf_psc_alpha', 10)

    nest.Connect(nrns, nrns, 'one_to_one')
    conns = nest.GetConnections(nrns, nrns)  # This returns a SynapseCollection
    # We can get desired information of the SynapseCollection with simple get() call.
    g = conns.get(['source', 'target', 'weight'])
    srcs = g['source']
    tgts = g['target']
    weights = g['weight']

    # Plot the matrix consisting of the weights between the sources and targets
    plt.figure(figsize=(12, 10))
    plotMatrix(srcs, tgts, weights, 'Uniform weight', 121)

    """
    Add some weights to the connections, and plot the updated weight matrix.
    """
    # We can set data of the connections with a simple set() call.
    w = [{'weight': x*1.0} for x in range(1, 11)]
    conns.set(w)
    weights = conns.get('weight')

    plotMatrix(srcs, tgts, weights, 'Set weight', 122)

    """
    We can also plot an all_to_all connection, with uniformly distributed weights,
    and different number of sources and targets.
    """
    nest.ResetKernel()

    pre = nest.Create('iaf_psc_alpha', 10)
    post = nest.Create('iaf_psc_delta', 5)
    nest.Connect(pre, post,
                 syn_spec={'weight':
                           {'distribution': 'uniform', 'low': 0.5, 'high': 4.5}})

    # Get a SynapseCollection with all connections
    conns = nest.GetConnections()
    srcs = conns.get('source')
    tgts = conns.get('target')
    weights = conns.get('weight')

    plt.figure(figsize=(12, 10))
    plotMatrix(srcs, tgts, weights, 'All to all connection', 111)

    """
    Lastly, we'll do an exmple that is a bit more complex. We connect different
    neurons with different rules, synapse models and weight distributions, and get
    different SynapseCollections by calling GetConnections with different inputs.
    """
    nest.ResetKernel()

    nrns = nest.Create('iaf_psc_alpha', 15)
    nest.Connect(nrns[:5], nrns[:5],
                 'one_to_one',
                 {'synapse_model': 'stdp_synapse',
                  'weight': {'distribution': 'normal', 'mu': 5.0, 'sigma': 2.0}})
    nest.Connect(nrns[:10], nrns[5:12],
                 {'rule': 'pairwise_bernoulli', 'p': 0.4},
                 {'weight': 4.0})
    nest.Connect(nrns[5:10], nrns[:5],
                 {'rule': 'fixed_total_number', 'N': 5},
                 {'weight': 3.0})
    nest.Connect(nrns[10:], nrns[:12],
                 'all_to_all',
                 {'synapse_model': 'stdp_synapse',
                  'weight': {'distribution': 'uniform', 'low': 1., 'high': 5.}})
    nest.Connect(nrns, nrns[12:],
                 {'rule': 'fixed_indegree', 'indegree': 3})

    # First get a SynapseCollection consisting of all the connections
    conns = nest.GetConnections()
    srcs = conns.source()
    tgts = conns.target()  # source() and target() are iterators
    weights = conns.get('weight')

    plt.figure(figsize=(14, 12))
    plotMatrix(list(srcs), list(tgts), weights, 'All connections', 221)

    # Get SynapseCollection consisting of a subset of connections
    conns = nest.GetConnections(nrns[:10], nrns[:10])
    g = conns.get(['source', 'target', 'weight'])
    srcs = g['source']
    tgts = g['target']
    weights = g['weight']

    plotMatrix(srcs, tgts, weights, 'Connections of the first ten neurons', 222)

    # Get SynapseCollection consisting of just the stdp_synapses
    conns = nest.GetConnections(synapse_model='stdp_synapse')
    g = conns.get(['source', 'target', 'weight'])
    srcs = g['source']
    tgts = g['target']
    weights = g['weight']

    plotMatrix(srcs, tgts, weights, 'Connections with stdp_synapse', 223)

    # Get SynapseCollection consisting of the fixed_total_number connections, but set
    # weight before plotting
    conns = nest.GetConnections(nrns[5:10], nrns[:5])
    w = [{'weight': x*1.0} for x in range(1, 6)]
    conns.set(w)
    g = conns.get(['source', 'target', 'weight'])
    srcs = g['source']
    tgts = g['target']
    weights = g['weight']

    plotMatrix(srcs, tgts, weights, 'fixed_total_number, set weight', 224)


    plt.show()


.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-timing

   **Total running time of the script:** ( 0 minutes  0.000 seconds)


.. _sphx_glr_download_auto_examples_connectome.py:


.. only :: html

 .. container:: sphx-glr-footer
    :class: sphx-glr-footer-example



  .. container:: sphx-glr-download

     :download:`Download Python source code: connectome.py <connectome.py>`



  .. container:: sphx-glr-download

     :download:`Download Jupyter notebook: connectome.ipynb <connectome.ipynb>`


.. only:: html

 .. rst-class:: sphx-glr-signature

    `Gallery generated by Sphinx-Gallery <https://sphinx-gallery.github.io>`_
