doc/examples/gif_pop_psc_exp.rst, before:

.. note::
    :class: sphx-glr-download-link-note

    Click :ref:`here <sphx_glr_download_auto_examples_gif_pop_psc_exp.py>` to download the full example code
.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-example-title

.. _sphx_glr_auto_examples_gif_pop_psc_exp.py:

Population rate model of generalized integrate-and-fire neurons
--------------------------------------------------------------------

This script simulates a finite network of generalized integrate-and-fire
(GIF) neurons directly on the mesoscopic population level using the effective
stochastic population rate dynamics derived in the paper [1]. The stochastic
population dynamics is implemented in the NEST model gif_pop_psc_exp. We
demonstrate this model using the example of a Brunel network of two coupled
populations, one excitatory and one inhibitory population.

Note that the population model represents the mesoscopic level
description of the corresponding microscopic network based on the
NEST model gif_psc_exp.

References
~~~~~~~~~~~

.. [1] Schwalger et al. PLoS Comput Biol. 2017


See Also
~~~~~~~~~~

:Authors:




.. code-block:: default



    # Loading the necessary modules:
    import numpy as np
    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    import nest



We first set the parameters of the microscopic model:


.. code-block:: default



    # all times given in milliseconds
    dt = 0.5
    dt_rec = 1.

    # Simulation time
    t_end = 2000.

    # Parameters
    size = 200
    N = np.array([4, 1]) * size
    M = len(N)  # number of populations

    # neuronal parameters
    t_ref = 4. * np.ones(M)  # absolute refractory period
    tau_m = 20 * np.ones(M)  # membrane time constant
    mu = 24. * np.ones(M)  # constant base current mu=R*(I0+Vrest)
    c = 10. * np.ones(M)  # base rate of exponential link function
    Delta_u = 2.5 * np.ones(M)  # softness of exponential link function
    V_reset = 0. * np.ones(M)  # Reset potential
    V_th = 15. * np.ones(M)  # baseline threshold (non-accumulating part)
    tau_sfa_exc = [100., 1000.]  # adaptation time constants of excitatory neurons
    tau_sfa_inh = [100., 1000.]  # adaptation time constants of inhibitory neurons
    J_sfa_exc = [1000., 1000.]  # size of feedback kernel theta
    #                             (= area under exponential) in mV*ms
    J_sfa_inh = [1000., 1000.]  # in mV*ms
    tau_theta = np.array([tau_sfa_exc, tau_sfa_inh])
    J_theta = np.array([J_sfa_exc, J_sfa_inh])

    # connectivity
    J = 0.3  # excitatory synaptic weight in mV if number of input connections
    #          is C0 (see below)
    g = 5.  # inhibition-to-excitation ratio
    pconn = 0.2 * np.ones((M, M))
    delay = 1. * np.ones((M, M))

    C0 = np.array([[800, 200], [800, 200]]) * 0.2  # constant reference matrix
    C = np.vstack((N, N)) * pconn  # numbers of input connections

    J_syn = np.array([[J, -g * J], [J, -g * J]]) * \
        C0 / C  # final synaptic weights scaling as 1/C

    taus1_ = [3., 6.]  # time constants of exc./inh. post-synaptic currents (PSC's)
    taus1 = np.array([taus1_ for k in range(M)])


    # step current input
    step = [[20.], [20.]]  # jump size of mu in mV
    tstep = np.array([[1500.], [1500.]])  # times of jumps

    # synaptic time constants of excitatory and inhibitory connections
    tau_ex = 3.  # in ms
    tau_in = 6.  # in ms


Simulation on the mesoscopic level
----------------------------------

To directly simulate the mesoscopic population activities (i.e. generating
the activity of a finite-size population without simulating single
neurons), we can build the populations using the NEST model
gif_pop_psc_exp:


.. code-block:: default


    nest.set_verbosity("M_WARNING")
    nest.ResetKernel()
    nest.SetKernelStatus(
        {'resolution': dt, 'print_time': True, 'local_num_threads': 1})
    t0 = nest.GetKernelStatus('time')

    nest_pops = nest.Create('gif_pop_psc_exp', M)

    C_m = 250.  # irrelevant value for membrane capacity, cancels out in simulation
    g_L = C_m / tau_m
    for i, nest_i in enumerate(nest_pops):
        nest.SetStatus([nest_i], {
            'C_m': C_m,
            'I_e': mu[i] * g_L[i],
            'lambda_0': c[i],  # in Hz!
            'Delta_V': Delta_u[i],
            'tau_m': tau_m[i],
            'tau_sfa': tau_theta[i],
            'q_sfa': J_theta[i] / tau_theta[i],  # [J_theta]= mV*ms -> [q_sfa]=mV
            'V_T_star': V_th[i],
            'V_reset': V_reset[i],
            'len_kernel': -1,             # -1 triggers automatic history size
            'N': N[i],
            't_ref': t_ref[i],
            'tau_syn_ex': max([tau_ex, dt]),
            'tau_syn_in': max([tau_in, dt]),
            'E_L': 0.
        })


    # connect the populations
    g_syn = np.ones_like(J_syn)  # synaptic conductance
    g_syn[:, 0] = C_m / tau_ex
    g_syn[:, 1] = C_m / tau_in
    for i, nest_i in enumerate(nest_pops):
        for j, nest_j in enumerate(nest_pops):
            nest.SetDefaults('static_synapse', {
                'weight': J_syn[i, j] * g_syn[i, j] * pconn[i, j],
                'delay': delay[i, j]})
            nest.Connect([nest_j], [nest_i], 'all_to_all')


To record the instantaneous population rate Abar(t) we use a multimeter,
and to get the population activity A_N(t) we use spike detector:


.. code-block:: default


    # monitor the output using a multimeter, this only records with dt_rec!
    nest_mm = nest.Create('multimeter')
    nest.SetStatus(nest_mm, {'record_from': ['n_events', 'mean'],
                             'withgid': True,
                             'withtime': False,
                             'interval': dt_rec})
    nest.Connect(nest_mm, nest_pops, 'all_to_all')

    # monitor the output using a spike detector
    nest_sd = []
    for i, nest_i in enumerate(nest_pops):
        nest_sd.append(nest.Create('spike_detector'))
        nest.SetStatus(nest_sd[i], {'withgid': False,
                                    'withtime': True,
                                    'time_in_steps': True})
        nest.SetDefaults('static_synapse', {'weight': 1.,
                                            'delay': dt})
        nest.Connect([nest_pops[i]], nest_sd[i], 'all_to_all')


All neurons in a given population will be stimulated with a step input
current:


.. code-block:: default


    # set initial value (at t0+dt) of step current generator to zero
    tstep = np.hstack((dt * np.ones((M, 1)), tstep))
    step = np.hstack((np.zeros((M, 1)), step))

    # create the step current devices
    nest_stepcurrent = nest.Create('step_current_generator', M)
    # set the parameters for the step currents
    for i in range(M):
        nest.SetStatus([nest_stepcurrent[i]], {
            'amplitude_times': tstep[i] + t0,
            'amplitude_values': step[i] * g_L[i], 'origin': t0, 'stop': t_end})
        pop_ = nest_pops[i]
        if type(nest_pops[i]) == int:
            pop_ = [pop_]
        nest.Connect([nest_stepcurrent[i]], pop_, syn_spec={'weight': 1.})


We can now start the simulation:


.. code-block:: default


    local_num_threads = 1
    seed = 1
    msd = local_num_threads * seed + 1  # master seed
    nest.SetKernelStatus({'rng_seeds': range(msd, msd + local_num_threads)})

    t = np.arange(0., t_end, dt_rec)
    A_N = np.ones((t.size, M)) * np.nan
    Abar = np.ones_like(A_N) * np.nan

    # simulate 1 step longer to make sure all t are simulated
    nest.Simulate(t_end + dt)
    data_mm = nest.GetStatus(nest_mm)[0]['events']
    for i, nest_i in enumerate(nest_pops):
        a_i = data_mm['mean'][data_mm['senders'] == nest_i]
        a = a_i / N[i] / dt
        min_len = np.min([len(a), len(Abar)])
        Abar[:min_len, i] = a[:min_len]

        data_sd = nest.GetStatus(nest_sd[i], keys=['events'])[0][0]['times']
        data_sd = data_sd * dt - t0
        bins = np.concatenate((t, np.array([t[-1] + dt_rec])))
        A = np.histogram(data_sd, bins=bins)[0] / float(N[i]) / dt_rec
        A_N[:, i] = A


and plot the activity:


.. code-block:: default


    plt.figure(1)
    plt.clf()
    plt.subplot(2, 1, 1)
    plt.plot(t, A_N * 1000)  # plot population activities (in Hz)
    plt.ylabel(r'$A_N$ [Hz]')
    plt.title('Population activities (mesoscopic sim.)')
    plt.subplot(2, 1, 2)
    plt.plot(t, Abar * 1000)  # plot instantaneous population rates (in Hz)
    plt.ylabel(r'$\bar A$ [Hz]')
    plt.xlabel('time [ms]')


Microscopic ("direct") simulation
----------------------------------

As mentioned above, the population model gif_pop_psc_exp directly
simulates the mesoscopic population activities, i.e. without the need to
 simulate single neurons. On the other hand, if we want to know single
neuron activities, we must simulate on the microscopic #level. This is
possible by building a corresponding network of gif_psc_exp neuron models:


.. code-block:: default


    nest.ResetKernel()
    nest.SetKernelStatus(
        {'resolution': dt, 'print_time': True, 'local_num_threads': 1})
    t0 = nest.GetKernelStatus('time')

    nest_pops = nest.Create('gif_pop_psc_exp', M)

    nest_pops = []
    for k in range(M):
        nest_pops.append(nest.Create('gif_psc_exp', N[k]))

    # set single neuron properties
    for i, nest_i in enumerate(nest_pops):
        nest.SetStatus(nest_i, {
            'C_m': C_m,
            'I_e': mu[i] * g_L[i],
            'lambda_0': c[i],  # in Hz!
            'Delta_V': Delta_u[i],
            'g_L': g_L[i],
            'tau_sfa': tau_theta[i],
            'q_sfa': J_theta[i] / tau_theta[i],  # [J_theta]= mV*ms -> [q_sfa]=mV
            'V_T_star': V_th[i],
            'V_reset': V_reset[i],
            't_ref': t_ref[i],
            'tau_syn_ex': max([tau_ex, dt]),
            'tau_syn_in': max([tau_in, dt]),
            'E_L': 0.,
            'V_m': 0.
        })


    # connect the populations
    for i, nest_i in enumerate(nest_pops):
        for j, nest_j in enumerate(nest_pops):
            nest.SetDefaults('static_synapse', {
                'weight': J_syn[i, j] * g_syn[i, j],
                'delay': delay[i, j]})

            if np.allclose(pconn[i, j], 1.):
                conn_spec = {'rule': 'all_to_all'}
            else:
                conn_spec = {
                    'rule': 'fixed_indegree', 'indegree': int(pconn[i, j] * N[j])}

            nest.Connect(nest_j, nest_i, conn_spec)


We want to record all spikes of each population in order to compute the
mesoscopic population activities A_N(t) from the microscopic simulation.
We also record the membrane potentials of five example neurons:


.. code-block:: default


    # monitor the output using a multimeter and a spike detector
    nest_sd = []
    for i, nest_i in enumerate(nest_pops):
        nest_sd.append(nest.Create('spike_detector'))
        nest.SetStatus(nest_sd[i], {'withgid': False,
                                    'withtime': True, 'time_in_steps': True})
        nest.SetDefaults('static_synapse', {'weight': 1., 'delay': dt})

        # record all spikes from population to compute population activity
        nest.Connect(nest_pops[i], nest_sd[i], 'all_to_all')

    Nrecord = [5, 0]  # for each population "i" the first Nrecord[i] neurons are
    #                   recorded
    nest_mm_Vm = []
    for i, nest_i in enumerate(nest_pops):
        nest_mm_Vm.append(nest.Create('multimeter'))
        nest.SetStatus(nest_mm_Vm[i], {'record_from': ['V_m'],
                                       'withgid': True, 'withtime': True,
                                       'interval': dt_rec})
        nest.Connect(nest_mm_Vm[i], list(
            np.array(nest_pops[i])[:Nrecord[i]]), 'all_to_all')


As before, all neurons in a given population will be stimulated with a
step input current. The following code block is identical to the one for
the mesoscopic simulation above:


.. code-block:: default


    # create the step current devices if they do not exist already
    nest_stepcurrent = nest.Create('step_current_generator', M)
    # set the parameters for the step currents
    for i in range(M):
        nest.SetStatus([nest_stepcurrent[i]], {
            'amplitude_times': tstep[i] + t0,
            'amplitude_values': step[i] * g_L[i], 'origin': t0, 'stop': t_end})
        # optionally a stopping time may be added by: 'stop': sim_T + t0
        pop_ = nest_pops[i]
        if type(nest_pops[i]) == int:
            pop_ = [pop_]
        nest.Connect([nest_stepcurrent[i]], pop_, syn_spec={'weight': 1.})


We can now start the microscopic simulation:


.. code-block:: default


    local_num_threads = 1
    seed = 1
    msd = local_num_threads * seed + 1  # master seed
    nest.SetKernelStatus({'rng_seeds': range(msd, msd + local_num_threads)})

    t = np.arange(0., t_end, dt_rec)
    A_N = np.ones((t.size, M)) * np.nan

    # simulate 1 step longer to make sure all t are simulated
    nest.Simulate(t_end + dt)


Let's retrieve the data of the spike detector and plot the activity of the
 excitatory population (in Hz):


.. code-block:: default


    for i, nest_i in enumerate(nest_pops):
        data_sd = nest.GetStatus(
            nest_sd[i], keys=['events'])[0][0]['times'] * dt - t0
        bins = np.concatenate((t, np.array([t[-1] + dt_rec])))
        A = np.histogram(data_sd, bins=bins)[0] / float(N[i]) / dt_rec
        A_N[:, i] = A * 1000  # in Hz

    t = np.arange(dt, t_end + dt, dt_rec)
    plt.figure(2)
    plt.plot(t, A_N[:, 0])
    plt.xlabel('time [ms]')
    plt.ylabel('population activity [Hz]')
    plt.title('Population activities (microscopic sim.)')


This should look similar to the population activity obtained from the
mesoscopic simulation based on the NEST model gif_pop_psc_exp (cf. figure
1). Now we retrieve the data of the multimeter, which allows us to look at
the membrane potentials of single neurons. Here we plot the voltage traces
(in mV) of five example neurons:


.. code-block:: default


    voltage = []
    for i in range(M):
        if Nrecord[i] > 0:
            senders = nest.GetStatus(nest_mm_Vm[i])[0]['events']['senders']
            v = nest.GetStatus(nest_mm_Vm[i])[0]['events']['V_m']
            voltage.append(
                np.array([v[np.where(senders == j)] for j in set(senders)]))
        else:
            voltage.append(np.array([]))


    f, axarr = plt.subplots(Nrecord[0], sharex=True)
    for i in range(Nrecord[0]):
        axarr[i].plot(voltage[0][i])
        axarr[i].set_yticks((0, 15, 30))
    axarr[i].set_xlabel('time [ms]')
    axarr[2].set_ylabel('membrane potential [mV]')
    axarr[0].set_title('5 example GIF neurons (microscopic sim.)')


Note that this plots only the subthreshold membrane potentials but not the
 spikes (as with every leaky integrate-and-fire model).


.. code-block:: default


    plt.show()


.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-timing

   **Total running time of the script:** ( 0 minutes  0.000 seconds)


.. _sphx_glr_download_auto_examples_gif_pop_psc_exp.py:


.. only :: html

 .. container:: sphx-glr-footer
    :class: sphx-glr-footer-example



  .. container:: sphx-glr-download

     :download:`Download Python source code: gif_pop_psc_exp.py <gif_pop_psc_exp.py>`



  .. container:: sphx-glr-download

     :download:`Download Jupyter notebook: gif_pop_psc_exp.ipynb <gif_pop_psc_exp.ipynb>`


.. only:: html

 .. rst-class:: sphx-glr-signature

    `Gallery generated by Sphinx-Gallery <https://sphinx-gallery.github.io>`_

Commit message:

fix format text, authors, css for references

doc/examples/gif_pop_psc_exp.rst, after:

.. note::
    :class: sphx-glr-download-link-note

    Click :ref:`here <sphx_glr_download_auto_examples_gif_pop_psc_exp.py>` to download the full example code
.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-example-title

.. _sphx_glr_auto_examples_gif_pop_psc_exp.py:

Population rate model of generalized integrate-and-fire neurons
--------------------------------------------------------------------

This script simulates a finite network of generalized integrate-and-fire
(GIF) neurons directly on the mesoscopic population level using the effective
stochastic population rate dynamics derived in the paper [1]_. The stochastic
population dynamics is implemented in the NEST model gif_pop_psc_exp. We
demonstrate this model using the example of a Brunel network of two coupled
populations, one excitatory and one inhibitory population.

Note that the population model represents the mesoscopic level
description of the corresponding microscopic network based on the
NEST model ``gif_psc_exp``.

References
~~~~~~~~~~~

.. [1] Schwalger T, Degert M, Gerstner W (2017). Towards a theory of cortical columns: From spiking
       neurons to interacting neural populations of finite size. PLoS Comput Biol.
       https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1005507



.. code-block:: default



    # Loading the necessary modules:
    import numpy as np
    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    import nest



We first set the parameters of the microscopic model:


.. code-block:: default



    # all times given in milliseconds
    dt = 0.5
    dt_rec = 1.

    # Simulation time
    t_end = 2000.

    # Parameters
    size = 200
    N = np.array([4, 1]) * size
    M = len(N)  # number of populations

    # neuronal parameters
    t_ref = 4. * np.ones(M)  # absolute refractory period
    tau_m = 20 * np.ones(M)  # membrane time constant
    mu = 24. * np.ones(M)  # constant base current mu=R*(I0+Vrest)
    c = 10. * np.ones(M)  # base rate of exponential link function
    Delta_u = 2.5 * np.ones(M)  # softness of exponential link function
    V_reset = 0. * np.ones(M)  # Reset potential
    V_th = 15. * np.ones(M)  # baseline threshold (non-accumulating part)
    tau_sfa_exc = [100., 1000.]  # adaptation time constants of excitatory neurons
    tau_sfa_inh = [100., 1000.]  # adaptation time constants of inhibitory neurons
    J_sfa_exc = [1000., 1000.]  # size of feedback kernel theta
    #                             (= area under exponential) in mV*ms
    J_sfa_inh = [1000., 1000.]  # in mV*ms
    tau_theta = np.array([tau_sfa_exc, tau_sfa_inh])
    J_theta = np.array([J_sfa_exc, J_sfa_inh])

    # connectivity
    J = 0.3  # excitatory synaptic weight in mV if number of input connections
    #          is C0 (see below)
    g = 5.  # inhibition-to-excitation ratio
    pconn = 0.2 * np.ones((M, M))
    delay = 1. * np.ones((M, M))

    C0 = np.array([[800, 200], [800, 200]]) * 0.2  # constant reference matrix
    C = np.vstack((N, N)) * pconn  # numbers of input connections

    J_syn = np.array([[J, -g * J], [J, -g * J]]) * \
        C0 / C  # final synaptic weights scaling as 1/C

    taus1_ = [3., 6.]  # time constants of exc./inh. post-synaptic currents (PSC's)
    taus1 = np.array([taus1_ for k in range(M)])


    # step current input
    step = [[20.], [20.]]  # jump size of mu in mV
    tstep = np.array([[1500.], [1500.]])  # times of jumps

    # synaptic time constants of excitatory and inhibitory connections
    tau_ex = 3.  # in ms
    tau_in = 6.  # in ms


Simulation on the mesoscopic level
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To directly simulate the mesoscopic population activities (i.e. generating
the activity of a finite-size population without simulating single
neurons), we can build the populations using the NEST model
``gif_pop_psc_exp``:


.. code-block:: default


    nest.set_verbosity("M_WARNING")
    nest.ResetKernel()
    nest.SetKernelStatus(
        {'resolution': dt, 'print_time': True, 'local_num_threads': 1})
    t0 = nest.GetKernelStatus('time')

    nest_pops = nest.Create('gif_pop_psc_exp', M)

    C_m = 250.  # irrelevant value for membrane capacity, cancels out in simulation
    g_L = C_m / tau_m
    for i, nest_i in enumerate(nest_pops):
        nest.SetStatus([nest_i], {
            'C_m': C_m,
            'I_e': mu[i] * g_L[i],
            'lambda_0': c[i],  # in Hz!
            'Delta_V': Delta_u[i],
            'tau_m': tau_m[i],
            'tau_sfa': tau_theta[i],
            'q_sfa': J_theta[i] / tau_theta[i],  # [J_theta]= mV*ms -> [q_sfa]=mV
            'V_T_star': V_th[i],
            'V_reset': V_reset[i],
            'len_kernel': -1,             # -1 triggers automatic history size
            'N': N[i],
            't_ref': t_ref[i],
            'tau_syn_ex': max([tau_ex, dt]),
            'tau_syn_in': max([tau_in, dt]),
            'E_L': 0.
        })


    # connect the populations
    g_syn = np.ones_like(J_syn)  # synaptic conductance
    g_syn[:, 0] = C_m / tau_ex
    g_syn[:, 1] = C_m / tau_in
    for i, nest_i in enumerate(nest_pops):
        for j, nest_j in enumerate(nest_pops):
            nest.SetDefaults('static_synapse', {
                'weight': J_syn[i, j] * g_syn[i, j] * pconn[i, j],
                'delay': delay[i, j]})
            nest.Connect([nest_j], [nest_i], 'all_to_all')


To record the instantaneous population rate `Abar(t)` we use a multimeter,
and to get the population activity `A_N(t)` we use spike detector:


.. code-block:: default


    # monitor the output using a multimeter, this only records with dt_rec!
    nest_mm = nest.Create('multimeter')
    nest.SetStatus(nest_mm, {'record_from': ['n_events', 'mean'],
                             'withgid': True,
                             'withtime': False,
                             'interval': dt_rec})
    nest.Connect(nest_mm, nest_pops, 'all_to_all')

    # monitor the output using a spike detector
    nest_sd = []
    for i, nest_i in enumerate(nest_pops):
        nest_sd.append(nest.Create('spike_detector'))
        nest.SetStatus(nest_sd[i], {'withgid': False,
                                    'withtime': True,
                                    'time_in_steps': True})
        nest.SetDefaults('static_synapse', {'weight': 1.,
                                            'delay': dt})
        nest.Connect([nest_pops[i]], nest_sd[i], 'all_to_all')


All neurons in a given population will be stimulated with a step input
current:


.. code-block:: default


    # set initial value (at t0+dt) of step current generator to zero
    tstep = np.hstack((dt * np.ones((M, 1)), tstep))
    step = np.hstack((np.zeros((M, 1)), step))

    # create the step current devices
    nest_stepcurrent = nest.Create('step_current_generator', M)
    # set the parameters for the step currents
    for i in range(M):
        nest.SetStatus([nest_stepcurrent[i]], {
            'amplitude_times': tstep[i] + t0,
            'amplitude_values': step[i] * g_L[i], 'origin': t0, 'stop': t_end})
        pop_ = nest_pops[i]
        if type(nest_pops[i]) == int:
            pop_ = [pop_]
        nest.Connect([nest_stepcurrent[i]], pop_, syn_spec={'weight': 1.})


We can now start the simulation:


.. code-block:: default


    local_num_threads = 1
    seed = 1
    msd = local_num_threads * seed + 1  # master seed
    nest.SetKernelStatus({'rng_seeds': range(msd, msd + local_num_threads)})

    t = np.arange(0., t_end, dt_rec)
    A_N = np.ones((t.size, M)) * np.nan
    Abar = np.ones_like(A_N) * np.nan

    # simulate 1 step longer to make sure all t are simulated
    nest.Simulate(t_end + dt)
    data_mm = nest.GetStatus(nest_mm)[0]['events']
    for i, nest_i in enumerate(nest_pops):
        a_i = data_mm['mean'][data_mm['senders'] == nest_i]
        a = a_i / N[i] / dt
        min_len = np.min([len(a), len(Abar)])
        Abar[:min_len, i] = a[:min_len]

        data_sd = nest.GetStatus(nest_sd[i], keys=['events'])[0][0]['times']
        data_sd = data_sd * dt - t0
        bins = np.concatenate((t, np.array([t[-1] + dt_rec])))
        A = np.histogram(data_sd, bins=bins)[0] / float(N[i]) / dt_rec
        A_N[:, i] = A


and plot the activity:


.. code-block:: default


    plt.figure(1)
    plt.clf()
    plt.subplot(2, 1, 1)
    plt.plot(t, A_N * 1000)  # plot population activities (in Hz)
    plt.ylabel(r'$A_N$ [Hz]')
    plt.title('Population activities (mesoscopic sim.)')
    plt.subplot(2, 1, 2)
    plt.plot(t, Abar * 1000)  # plot instantaneous population rates (in Hz)
    plt.ylabel(r'$\bar A$ [Hz]')
    plt.xlabel('time [ms]')


Microscopic ("direct") simulation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As mentioned above, the population model ``gif_pop_psc_exp`` directly
simulates the mesoscopic population activities, i.e. without the need to
simulate single neurons. On the other hand, if we want to know single
neuron activities, we must simulate on the microscopic level. This is
possible by building a corresponding network of ``gif_psc_exp`` neuron models:


.. code-block:: default


    nest.ResetKernel()
    nest.SetKernelStatus(
        {'resolution': dt, 'print_time': True, 'local_num_threads': 1})
    t0 = nest.GetKernelStatus('time')

    nest_pops = nest.Create('gif_pop_psc_exp', M)

    nest_pops = []
    for k in range(M):
        nest_pops.append(nest.Create('gif_psc_exp', N[k]))

    # set single neuron properties
    for i, nest_i in enumerate(nest_pops):
        nest.SetStatus(nest_i, {
            'C_m': C_m,
            'I_e': mu[i] * g_L[i],
            'lambda_0': c[i],  # in Hz!
            'Delta_V': Delta_u[i],
            'g_L': g_L[i],
            'tau_sfa': tau_theta[i],
            'q_sfa': J_theta[i] / tau_theta[i],  # [J_theta]= mV*ms -> [q_sfa]=mV
            'V_T_star': V_th[i],
            'V_reset': V_reset[i],
            't_ref': t_ref[i],
            'tau_syn_ex': max([tau_ex, dt]),
            'tau_syn_in': max([tau_in, dt]),
            'E_L': 0.,
            'V_m': 0.
        })


    # connect the populations
    for i, nest_i in enumerate(nest_pops):
        for j, nest_j in enumerate(nest_pops):
            nest.SetDefaults('static_synapse', {
                'weight': J_syn[i, j] * g_syn[i, j],
                'delay': delay[i, j]})

            if np.allclose(pconn[i, j], 1.):
                conn_spec = {'rule': 'all_to_all'}
            else:
                conn_spec = {
                    'rule': 'fixed_indegree', 'indegree': int(pconn[i, j] * N[j])}

            nest.Connect(nest_j, nest_i, conn_spec)


We want to record all spikes of each population in order to compute the
mesoscopic population activities `A_N(t)` from the microscopic simulation.
We also record the membrane potentials of five example neurons:


.. code-block:: default


    # monitor the output using a multimeter and a spike detector
    nest_sd = []
    for i, nest_i in enumerate(nest_pops):
        nest_sd.append(nest.Create('spike_detector'))
        nest.SetStatus(nest_sd[i], {'withgid': False,
                                    'withtime': True, 'time_in_steps': True})
        nest.SetDefaults('static_synapse', {'weight': 1., 'delay': dt})

        # record all spikes from population to compute population activity
        nest.Connect(nest_pops[i], nest_sd[i], 'all_to_all')

    Nrecord = [5, 0]  # for each population "i" the first Nrecord[i] neurons are
    #                   recorded
    nest_mm_Vm = []
    for i, nest_i in enumerate(nest_pops):
        nest_mm_Vm.append(nest.Create('multimeter'))
        nest.SetStatus(nest_mm_Vm[i], {'record_from': ['V_m'],
                                       'withgid': True, 'withtime': True,
                                       'interval': dt_rec})
        nest.Connect(nest_mm_Vm[i], list(
            np.array(nest_pops[i])[:Nrecord[i]]), 'all_to_all')


As before, all neurons in a given population will be stimulated with a
step input current. The following code block is identical to the one for
the mesoscopic simulation above:


.. code-block:: default


    # create the step current devices if they do not exist already
    nest_stepcurrent = nest.Create('step_current_generator', M)
    # set the parameters for the step currents
    for i in range(M):
        nest.SetStatus([nest_stepcurrent[i]], {
            'amplitude_times': tstep[i] + t0,
            'amplitude_values': step[i] * g_L[i], 'origin': t0, 'stop': t_end})
        # optionally a stopping time may be added by: 'stop': sim_T + t0
        pop_ = nest_pops[i]
        if type(nest_pops[i]) == int:
            pop_ = [pop_]
        nest.Connect([nest_stepcurrent[i]], pop_, syn_spec={'weight': 1.})


We can now start the microscopic simulation:


.. code-block:: default


    local_num_threads = 1
    seed = 1
    msd = local_num_threads * seed + 1  # master seed
    nest.SetKernelStatus({'rng_seeds': range(msd, msd + local_num_threads)})

    t = np.arange(0., t_end, dt_rec)
    A_N = np.ones((t.size, M)) * np.nan

    # simulate 1 step longer to make sure all t are simulated
    nest.Simulate(t_end + dt)


Let's retrieve the data of the spike detector and plot the activity of the
excitatory population (in Hz):


.. code-block:: default


    for i, nest_i in enumerate(nest_pops):
        data_sd = nest.GetStatus(
            nest_sd[i], keys=['events'])[0][0]['times'] * dt - t0
        bins = np.concatenate((t, np.array([t[-1] + dt_rec])))
        A = np.histogram(data_sd, bins=bins)[0] / float(N[i]) / dt_rec
        A_N[:, i] = A * 1000  # in Hz

    t = np.arange(dt, t_end + dt, dt_rec)
    plt.figure(2)
    plt.plot(t, A_N[:, 0])
    plt.xlabel('time [ms]')
    plt.ylabel('population activity [Hz]')
    plt.title('Population activities (microscopic sim.)')


This should look similar to the population activity obtained from the
mesoscopic simulation based on the NEST model ``gif_pop_psc_exp`` (cf. figure
1). Now we retrieve the data of the multimeter, which allows us to look at
the membrane potentials of single neurons. Here we plot the voltage traces
(in mV) of five example neurons:


.. code-block:: default


    voltage = []
    for i in range(M):
        if Nrecord[i] > 0:
            senders = nest.GetStatus(nest_mm_Vm[i])[0]['events']['senders']
            v = nest.GetStatus(nest_mm_Vm[i])[0]['events']['V_m']
            voltage.append(
                np.array([v[np.where(senders == j)] for j in set(senders)]))
        else:
            voltage.append(np.array([]))


    f, axarr = plt.subplots(Nrecord[0], sharex=True)
    for i in range(Nrecord[0]):
        axarr[i].plot(voltage[0][i])
        axarr[i].set_yticks((0, 15, 30))
    axarr[i].set_xlabel('time [ms]')
    axarr[2].set_ylabel('membrane potential [mV]')
    axarr[0].set_title('5 example GIF neurons (microscopic sim.)')


Note that this plots only the subthreshold membrane potentials but not the
spikes (as with every leaky integrate-and-fire model).


.. code-block:: default


    plt.show()


.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-timing

   **Total running time of the script:** ( 0 minutes  0.000 seconds)


.. _sphx_glr_download_auto_examples_gif_pop_psc_exp.py:


.. only :: html

 .. container:: sphx-glr-footer
    :class: sphx-glr-footer-example



  .. container:: sphx-glr-download

     :download:`Download Python source code: gif_pop_psc_exp.py <gif_pop_psc_exp.py>`



  .. container:: sphx-glr-download

     :download:`Download Jupyter notebook: gif_pop_psc_exp.ipynb <gif_pop_psc_exp.ipynb>`


.. only:: html

 .. rst-class:: sphx-glr-signature

    `Gallery generated by Sphinx-Gallery <https://sphinx-gallery.github.io>`_
