doc/examples/gif_population.rst, before:

.. note::
    :class: sphx-glr-download-link-note

    Click :ref:`here <sphx_glr_download_auto_examples_gif_population.py>` to download the full example code
.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-example-title

.. _sphx_glr_auto_examples_gif_population.py:

Population of GIF neuron model with oscillatory behavior
-------------------------------------------------------------

This script simulates a population of generalized integrate-and-fire (GIF)
model neurons driven by noise from a group of Poisson generators.

Due to spike-frequency adaptation, the GIF neurons tend to show oscillatory
behavior on the time scale comparable with the time constant of adaptation
elements (stc and sfa).

Population dynamics are visualized by raster plot and as average firing rate.

References
~~~~~~~~~~~

.. [1] Schwalger et al. PLoS Comput Biol. 2017

See Also
~~~~~~~~~~

:Authors:



Import all necessary modules for simulation and plotting.


.. code-block:: default


    import nest
    import nest.raster_plot
    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

    nest.ResetKernel()


Assigning the simulation parameters to variables.


.. code-block:: default


    dt = 0.1
    simtime = 2000.0


Definition of neural parameters for the GIF model. These parameters are
extracted by fitting the model to experimental data [1].

.. [1] Mensi, S., Naud, R.,Pozzorini, C., Avermann, M., Petersen, C.C. and
       Gerstner, W., 2012. Parameter extraction and classification of
       three cortical neuron types reveals two distinct adaptation
       mechanisms. Journal of Neurophysiology, 107(6), pp.1756-1775.


.. code-block:: default


    neuron_params = {"C_m": 83.1,
                     "g_L": 3.7,
                     "E_L": -67.0,
                     "Delta_V": 1.4,
                     "V_T_star": -39.6,
                     "t_ref": 4.0,
                     "V_reset": -36.7,
                     "lambda_0": 1.0,
                     "q_stc": [56.7, -6.9],
                     "tau_stc": [57.8, 218.2],
                     "q_sfa": [11.7, 1.8],
                     "tau_sfa": [53.8, 640.0],
                     "tau_syn_ex": 10.0,
                     }


Definition of the parameters for the population of GIF neurons.


.. code-block:: default


    N_ex = 100  # size of the population
    p_ex = 0.3  # connection probability inside the population
    w_ex = 30.0  # synaptic weights inside the population (pA)


Definition of the parameters for the Poisson group and its connection with
 GIF neurons population.


.. code-block:: default


    N_noise = 50  # size of Poisson group
    rate_noise = 10.0  # firing rate of Poisson neurons (Hz)
    w_noise = 20.0  # synaptic weights from Poisson to population neurons (pA)


Configuration of the simulation kernel with the previously defined time
resolution.


.. code-block:: default


    nest.SetKernelStatus({"resolution": dt})


Building a population of GIF neurons, a group of Poisson neurons and a
spike detector device for capturing spike times of the population.


.. code-block:: default


    population = nest.Create("gif_psc_exp", N_ex, params=neuron_params)

    noise = nest.Create("poisson_generator", N_noise, params={'rate': rate_noise})

    spike_det = nest.Create("spike_detector")


Build connections inside the population of GIF neurons population, between
Poisson group and the population, and also connecting spike detector to
the population.


.. code-block:: default


    nest.Connect(
        population, population, {'rule': 'pairwise_bernoulli', 'p': p_ex},
        syn_spec={"weight": w_ex}
        )

    nest.Connect(noise, population, 'all_to_all', syn_spec={"weight": w_noise})

    nest.Connect(population, spike_det)


Simulation of the network.


.. code-block:: default


    nest.Simulate(simtime)


Plotting the results of simulation including raster plot and histogram of
population activity.


.. code-block:: default


    nest.raster_plot.from_device(spike_det, hist=True)
    plt.title('Population dynamics')


.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-timing

   **Total running time of the script:** ( 0 minutes  0.000 seconds)


.. _sphx_glr_download_auto_examples_gif_population.py:


.. only :: html

 .. container:: sphx-glr-footer
    :class: sphx-glr-footer-example



  .. container:: sphx-glr-download

     :download:`Download Python source code: gif_population.py <gif_population.py>`



  .. container:: sphx-glr-download

     :download:`Download Jupyter notebook: gif_population.ipynb <gif_population.ipynb>`


.. only:: html

 .. rst-class:: sphx-glr-signature

    `Gallery generated by Sphinx-Gallery <https://sphinx-gallery.github.io>`_

Commit message:

fix format text, authors, css for references

doc/examples/gif_population.rst, after:

.. note::
    :class: sphx-glr-download-link-note

    Click :ref:`here <sphx_glr_download_auto_examples_gif_population.py>` to download the full example code
.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-example-title

.. _sphx_glr_auto_examples_gif_population.py:

Population of GIF neuron model with oscillatory behavior
-------------------------------------------------------------

This script simulates a population of generalized integrate-and-fire (GIF)
model neurons driven by noise from a group of Poisson generators.

Due to spike-frequency adaptation, the GIF neurons tend to show oscillatory
behavior on the time scale comparable with the time constant of adaptation
elements (stc and sfa).

Population dynamics are visualized by raster plot and as average firing rate.

References
~~~~~~~~~~~

.. [1] Schwalger T, Degert M, Gerstner W (2017). Towards a theory of cortical columns: From spiking
       neurons to interacting neural populations of finite size. PLoS Comput Biol.
       https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1005507

.. [2] Mensi S, Naud R, Pozzorini C, Avermann M, Petersen CC and
       Gerstner W (2012). Parameter extraction and classification of
       three cortical neuron types reveals two distinct adaptation
       mechanisms. Journal of Neurophysiology. 107(6), pp.1756-1775.

Import all necessary modules for simulation and plotting.


.. code-block:: default


    import nest
    import nest.raster_plot
    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

    nest.ResetKernel()


Assigning the simulation parameters to variables.


.. code-block:: default


    dt = 0.1
    simtime = 2000.0


Definition of neural parameters for the GIF model. These parameters are
extracted by fitting the model to experimental data [2]_.


.. code-block:: default



    neuron_params = {"C_m": 83.1,
                     "g_L": 3.7,
                     "E_L": -67.0,
                     "Delta_V": 1.4,
                     "V_T_star": -39.6,
                     "t_ref": 4.0,
                     "V_reset": -36.7,
                     "lambda_0": 1.0,
                     "q_stc": [56.7, -6.9],
                     "tau_stc": [57.8, 218.2],
                     "q_sfa": [11.7, 1.8],
                     "tau_sfa": [53.8, 640.0],
                     "tau_syn_ex": 10.0,
                     }


Definition of the parameters for the population of GIF neurons.


.. code-block:: default


    N_ex = 100  # size of the population
    p_ex = 0.3  # connection probability inside the population
    w_ex = 30.0  # synaptic weights inside the population (pA)


Definition of the parameters for the Poisson group and its connection with
GIF neurons population.


.. code-block:: default


    N_noise = 50  # size of Poisson group
    rate_noise = 10.0  # firing rate of Poisson neurons (Hz)
    w_noise = 20.0  # synaptic weights from Poisson to population neurons (pA)


Configuration of the simulation kernel with the previously defined time
resolution.


.. code-block:: default


    nest.SetKernelStatus({"resolution": dt})


Building a population of GIF neurons, a group of Poisson neurons and a
spike detector device for capturing spike times of the population.


.. code-block:: default


    population = nest.Create("gif_psc_exp", N_ex, params=neuron_params)

    noise = nest.Create("poisson_generator", N_noise, params={'rate': rate_noise})

    spike_det = nest.Create("spike_detector")


Build connections inside the population of GIF neurons population, between
Poisson group and the population, and also connecting spike detector to
the population.


.. code-block:: default


    nest.Connect(
        population, population, {'rule': 'pairwise_bernoulli', 'p': p_ex},
        syn_spec={"weight": w_ex}
        )

    nest.Connect(noise, population, 'all_to_all', syn_spec={"weight": w_noise})

    nest.Connect(population, spike_det)


Simulation of the network.


.. code-block:: default


    nest.Simulate(simtime)


Plotting the results of simulation including raster plot and histogram of
population activity.


.. code-block:: default


    nest.raster_plot.from_device(spike_det, hist=True)
    plt.title('Population dynamics')


.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-timing

   **Total running time of the script:** ( 0 minutes  0.000 seconds)


.. _sphx_glr_download_auto_examples_gif_population.py:


.. only :: html

 .. container:: sphx-glr-footer
    :class: sphx-glr-footer-example



  .. container:: sphx-glr-download

     :download:`Download Python source code: gif_population.py <gif_population.py>`



  .. container:: sphx-glr-download

     :download:`Download Jupyter notebook: gif_population.ipynb <gif_population.ipynb>`


.. only:: html

 .. rst-class:: sphx-glr-signature

    `Gallery generated by Sphinx-Gallery <https://sphinx-gallery.github.io>`_
