.. note::
    :class: sphx-glr-download-link-note

    Click :ref:`here <sphx_glr_download_auto_examples_one_neuron_with_noise.py>` to download the full example code
.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-example-title

.. _sphx_glr_auto_examples_one_neuron_with_noise.py:


One neuron with noise
----------------------

This script simulates a neuron with input from the ``poisson_generator``, and
records the neuron's membrane potential.


First, we import all necessary modules needed to simulate, analyze and
plot our example. Additionally, we set the verbosity to only show warnings
and reset the kernel.
Resetting the kernel removes any nodes we may have created previously and
resets the internal clock to zero. This allows us to execute the script
several times in a Python shell without interference from previous NEST
simulations.


.. code-block:: default


    import nest
    import nest.voltage_trace

    nest.set_verbosity("M_WARNING")
    nest.ResetKernel()


Second, the nodes (the neuron, poisson generator (two of them), and the
voltmeter) are created using  the ``Create`` function.
We store the returned handles in variables for later reference.


.. code-block:: default


    neuron = nest.Create("iaf_psc_alpha")
    noise = nest.Create("poisson_generator", 2)
    voltmeter = nest.Create("voltmeter")


Third, the Poisson generator is configured using ``SetStatus``, which expects
a list of node handles and a list of parameter dictionaries. We set the
Poisson generators to 8,000 Hz and 15,000 Hz, respectively. Note that we do
not need to set parameters for the neuron and the voltmeter, since they have
satisfactory defaults.


.. code-block:: default


    nest.SetStatus(noise, [{"rate": 80000.0}, {"rate": 15000.0}])


Fourth, the neuron is connected to the ``poisson_generator`` and to the
``voltmeter``. We also specify the synaptic weight and delay in this step.


.. code-block:: default


    nest.Connect(noise, neuron, syn_spec={'weight': [[1.2, -1.0]], 'delay': 1.0})
    nest.Connect(voltmeter, neuron)


Now we simulate the network using ``Simulate``, which takes the
desired simulation time in milliseconds.


.. code-block:: default


    nest.Simulate(1000.0)


Finally, we plot the neuron's membrane potential as a function of
time.


.. code-block:: default


    nest.voltage_trace.from_device(voltmeter)


.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-timing

   **Total running time of the script:** ( 0 minutes  0.000 seconds)


.. _sphx_glr_download_auto_examples_one_neuron_with_noise.py:


.. only :: html

 .. container:: sphx-glr-footer
    :class: sphx-glr-footer-example



  .. container:: sphx-glr-download

     :download:`Download Python source code: one_neuron_with_noise.py <one_neuron_with_noise.py>`



  .. container:: sphx-glr-download

     :download:`Download Jupyter notebook: one_neuron_with_noise.ipynb <one_neuron_with_noise.ipynb>`


.. only:: html

 .. rst-class:: sphx-glr-signature

    `Gallery generated by Sphinx-Gallery <https://sphinx-gallery.github.io>`_
