.. note::
    :class: sphx-glr-download-link-note

    Click :ref:`here <sphx_glr_download_auto_examples_testiaf.py>` to download the full example code
.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-example-title

.. _sphx_glr_auto_examples_testiaf.py:

IAF Neuron example
------------------

A DC current is injected into the neuron using a current generator
device. The membrane potential as well as the spiking activity are
recorded by corresponding devices.

It can be observed how the current charges the membrane, a spike
is emitted, the neuron becomes absolute refractory, and finally
starts to recover.


First, we import all necessary modules for simulation and plotting


.. code-block:: default


    import nest
    import pylab


Second the function ``build_network`` is defined to build the network and
return the handles of the ``spike_detector`` and the ``voltmeter``. The
function takes the simulation resolution as argument

The function first resets the simulation kernel and sets the number of
threads and the simulation resolution.  The ``iaf_psc_alpha`` neuron is
created and the handle is stored in the variable `neuron`. The status of
the neuron is changed so it receives an external current. Next a
``voltmeter`` and a ``spike_detector`` are created and their handles stored
in the variables `vm` and `sd` respectively.

The voltmeter and spike detector are then connected to the neuron. ``Connect``
takes the device and neuron handles as input. The voltmeter is connected to the
neuron and the neuron to the spike detector because the neuron sends spikes
to the detector and the voltmeter 'observes' the neuron.


.. code-block:: default


    def build_network(dt):

        nest.ResetKernel()
        nest.SetKernelStatus({"local_num_threads": 1, "resolution": dt})

        neuron = nest.Create('iaf_psc_alpha')
        nest.SetStatus(neuron, "I_e", 376.0)

        vm = nest.Create('voltmeter')
        sd = nest.Create('spike_detector')

        nest.Connect(vm, neuron)
        nest.Connect(neuron, sd)

        return vm, sd



The neuron is simulated for three different resolutions and then the
voltage trace is plotted


.. code-block:: default


    for dt in [0.1, 0.5, 1.0]:
        print("Running simulation with dt=%.2f" % dt)
        vm, sd = build_network(dt)

        nest.Simulate(1000.0)


The network is simulated using ``Simulate``, which takes the desired
simulation time in milliseconds and advances the network state by this
amount of time. During simulation, the ``spike_detector`` counts the
spikes of the target neuron and the total number is read out at the
end of the simulation period.

The values of the voltage recorded by the voltmeter are read out and
the values for the membrane potential are stored in potential and the
corresponding times in the times array


.. code-block:: default


        potentials = nest.GetStatus(vm, "events")[0]["V_m"]
        times = nest.GetStatus(vm, "events")[0]["times"]


Using the pylab library the voltage trace is plotted over time


.. code-block:: default


        pylab.plot(times, potentials, label="dt=%.2f" % dt)
        print("  Number of spikes: {0}".format(nest.GetStatus(sd, "n_events")[0]))


Finally the axis are labelled and a legend is generated


.. code-block:: default


        pylab.legend(loc=3)
        pylab.xlabel("time (ms)")
        pylab.ylabel("V_m (mV)")




.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-timing

   **Total running time of the script:** ( 0 minutes  0.000 seconds)


.. _sphx_glr_download_auto_examples_testiaf.py:


.. only :: html

 .. container:: sphx-glr-footer
    :class: sphx-glr-footer-example



  .. container:: sphx-glr-download

     :download:`Download Python source code: testiaf.py <testiaf.py>`



  .. container:: sphx-glr-download

     :download:`Download Jupyter notebook: testiaf.ipynb <testiaf.ipynb>`


.. only:: html

 .. rst-class:: sphx-glr-signature

    `Gallery generated by Sphinx-Gallery <https://sphinx-gallery.github.io>`_
