doc/citing-nest.rst, before:

Citing NEST
-----------

Please cite NEST if you use it in your work. You can :doc:`let us know <community>` about your publications that used NEST, and we
will add them to our `publication list <https://www.nest-simulator.org/publications/>`_; this will help make them
visible to potential readers.
    `Download our logo  <https://github.com/nest/nest-simulator/tree/master/extras/logos>`_ for your poster or talk!

If you use NEST 2.14.0, please cite it as **Peyser, Alexander et al.
(2017). NEST 2.14.0. Zenodo. 10.5281/zenodo.882971**. The full citation
is available in different formats on
`Zenodo <http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.882971>`_.

If you use NEST 2.12.0, please cite it as **Kunkel, Susanne et al.
(2017). NEST 2.12.0. Zenodo. 10.5281/zenodo.259534**. The full citation
is available in different formats on
`Zenodo <http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.259534>`__.

If you use NEST v2.10.0, please cite it as **Bos, Hannah et al. (2015).
NEST 2.10.0. Zenodo. 10.5281/zenodo.44222**. The full citation is
available in different formats on
`Zenodo <http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.44222>`__.

If you use NEST v2.8.0, please cite it as **Eppler, Jochen Martin et al.
(2015). NEST 2.8.0. Zenodo. 10.5281/zenodo.32969**. The full citation is
available in different formats on
`Zenodo <http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.32969>`__.

For all versions below NEST v2.8.0 and for citing NEST without referring
to a specific version, please use: `Gewaltig M-O & Diesmann M (2007)
NEST (Neural Simulation Tool) Scholarpedia
2(4):1430 <http://www.scholarpedia.org/article/NEST_(Neural_Simulation_Tool)>`__.

Here is a suitable BibTeX entry:

.. code:: latex

    @ARTICLE{Gewaltig:NEST,
      author  = {Marc-Oliver Gewaltig and Markus Diesmann},
      title   = {NEST (NEural Simulation Tool)},
      journal = {Scholarpedia},
      year    = {2007},
      volume  = {2},
      pages   = {1430},
      number  = {4}
    }

Commit message:

update pages to link to pynest templates and update the citations

doc/citing-nest.rst, after:

Cite NEST
==========

Please cite NEST if you use it in your work. You can :doc:`let us know <community>` about your publications that used NEST, and we
will add them to our `publication list <https://www.nest-simulator.org/publications/>`_; this will help make them
visible to potential readers.

For the full citation and additional formats follow the doi Zenodo link.

Cite the version you used in your work:

Jordan, Jakob et al. (2019). **NEST 2.18.0** Zenodo. http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.2605422

Linssen, Charl et al. (2018). **NEST 2.16.0** Zenodo. http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.1400175

Peyser, Alexander et al. (2017). **NEST 2.14.0** Zenodo. http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.882971

Kunkel, Susanne et al. (2017). **NEST 2.12.0** Zenodo. http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.259534

Bos, Hannah et al. (2015). **NEST 2.10.0** Zenodo. http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.44222

Eppler, Jochen Martin et al. (2015). **NEST 2.8.0** Zenodo. http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.32969

For all versions below NEST 2.8.0 and for citing NEST without referring
to a specific version, please use: `Gewaltig M-O & Diesmann M (2007) NEST (Neural Simulation Tool) Scholarpedia
2(4):1430 <http://www.scholarpedia.org/article/NEST_(Neural_Simulation_Tool)>`__.

Here is a suitable BibTeX entry:

.. code:: latex

    @ARTICLE{Gewaltig:NEST,
      author  = {Marc-Oliver Gewaltig and Markus Diesmann},
      title   = {NEST (NEural Simulation Tool)},
      journal = {Scholarpedia},
      year    = {2007},
      volume  = {2},
      pages   = {1430},
      number  = {4}
    }
