doc/download.rst, before:

Download NEST
===================

.. pull-quote::

      For standard situations where you just want to use but not modify
      NEST, you don't have to download the source code.

      Distribution packages ease the installation on Debian/Ubuntu,
      Fedora, macOS and Conda.

      See our :doc:`installation instructions <installation/index>` to
      find the right option for you.

Download the source code
-------------------------

Here you'll find the lastest versions of the source code and Live Media for download.
If you use NEST for your project, don't forget to :doc:`cite NEST <citing-nest>`!


* If you are compiling NEST from source, you can |link-pre|\ |version|\ |link-post|

.. |link-pre| raw:: html

    <a href="https://github.com/nest/nest-simulator/archive/v

.. |link-post| raw:: html

    .tar.gz">download the latest release here</a>

.. note::

 To try out NEST 3.0 - you can clone and compile the source code from the `the nest-3 branch on GitHub <https://github.com/nest/nest-simulator/tree/nest-3>`_

* Then, follow the installation instructions for :doc:`Linux <installation/linux_install>` or :doc:`macOS <installation/mac_install>`.

 |link-pregit|\ |version|\ |link-postgit|

.. |link-pregit| raw:: html

   <a href="https://github.com/nest/nest-simulator/releases/tag/v

.. |link-postgit| raw:: html

    ">Get the release notes here </a>

* You can also test out the `latest developer version <https://github.com/nest/nest-simulator>`_ from GitHub.


.. seealso::

   Previous versions and associated release notes can be found at
   https://github.com/nest/nest-simulator/releases/

.. _download_livemedia:

Download the NEST live media for virtual machines
--------------------------------------------------

Live media is available in the OVA format, and is suitable, for example, for importing into VirtualBox.
If you run **Windows**, this is the option for you OR if you just want to run NEST without installing it on your computer.
After downloading the virtual machine, check out the :doc:`install instructions for Live Media <installation/livemedia>`.


* Download the |link-premedia|\ |version|\ |link-postmedia|

.. |link-premedia| raw:: html

    <a href="https://nest-simulator.org/downloads/gplreleases/lubuntu-18.04_nest-

.. |link-postmedia|  raw:: html

     .ova">latest release of live media </a>

* After downloading the virtual machine, check out the :doc:`install instructions for Live Media <installation/livemedia>`.


Older versions of live media
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`NEST Live Media 2.18.0 <https://nest-simulator.org/downloads/gplreleases/lubuntu-18.04_nest-2.18.0.ova>`_

`Checksum 2.18.0 <https://nest-simulator.org/downloads/gplreleases/lubuntu-18.04_nest-2.18.0.ova.sha512sum>`_

`NEST Live Media 2.16.0 <https://nest-simulator.org/downloads/gplreleases/lubuntu-18.04_nest-2.16.0.ova>`_

`Checksum 2.16.0 <https://nest-simulator.org/downloads/gplreleases/lubuntu-18.04_nest-2.16.0.ova.sha512sum>`_

We continuously aim to improve NEST, implement features, and fix bugs with every new version;
thus, we encourage our users to use the **most recent version of NEST**.


----

NEST is available under the :doc:`GNU General Public License 2 or later <license>`. This means that you can

-  use NEST for your research,
-  modify and improve NEST according to your needs,
-  distribute NEST to others under the same license.

Commit message:

add note about this not being officially released yet

doc/download.rst, after:

Download NEST
===================

.. admonition:: Try NEST 3.0

 NEST 3.0 is not yet officially released but if you want to check out the new features, you can clone the
 source code from the `the nest-3 branch on GitHub <https://github.com/nest/nest-simulator/tree/nest-3>`_.
 Then follow the instructions to compile from source in :doc:`installation/linux_install` or :doc:`installation/mac_install`.

.. pull-quote::

      For standard situations where you just want to use but not modify
      NEST, you don't have to download the source code.

      Distribution packages ease the installation on Debian/Ubuntu,
      Fedora, macOS and Conda.

      See our :doc:`installation instructions <installation/index>` to
      find the right option for you.

Download the source code
-------------------------

Here you'll find the lastest versions of the source code and Live Media for download.
If you use NEST for your project, don't forget to :doc:`cite NEST <citing-nest>`!


* If you are compiling NEST from source, you can |link-pre|\ |version|\ |link-post|

.. |link-pre| raw:: html

    <a href="https://github.com/nest/nest-simulator/archive/v

.. |link-post| raw:: html

    .tar.gz">download the latest release here</a>

* Then, follow the installation instructions for :doc:`Linux <installation/linux_install>` or :doc:`macOS <installation/mac_install>`.

 |link-pregit|\ |version|\ |link-postgit|

.. |link-pregit| raw:: html

   <a href="https://github.com/nest/nest-simulator/releases/tag/v

.. |link-postgit| raw:: html

    ">Get the release notes here </a>

* You can also test out the `latest developer version <https://github.com/nest/nest-simulator>`_ from GitHub.


.. seealso::

   Previous versions and associated release notes can be found at
   https://github.com/nest/nest-simulator/releases/

.. _download_livemedia:

Download the NEST live media for virtual machines
--------------------------------------------------

Live media is available in the OVA format, and is suitable, for example, for importing into VirtualBox.
If you run **Windows**, this is the option for you OR if you just want to run NEST without installing it on your computer.
After downloading the virtual machine, check out the :doc:`install instructions for Live Media <installation/livemedia>`.


* Download the |link-premedia|\ |version|\ |link-postmedia|

.. |link-premedia| raw:: html

    <a href="https://nest-simulator.org/downloads/gplreleases/lubuntu-18.04_nest-

.. |link-postmedia|  raw:: html

     .ova">latest release of live media </a>

* After downloading the virtual machine, check out the :doc:`install instructions for Live Media <installation/livemedia>`.


Older versions of live media
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`NEST Live Media 2.18.0 <https://nest-simulator.org/downloads/gplreleases/lubuntu-18.04_nest-2.18.0.ova>`_

`Checksum 2.18.0 <https://nest-simulator.org/downloads/gplreleases/lubuntu-18.04_nest-2.18.0.ova.sha512sum>`_

`NEST Live Media 2.16.0 <https://nest-simulator.org/downloads/gplreleases/lubuntu-18.04_nest-2.16.0.ova>`_

`Checksum 2.16.0 <https://nest-simulator.org/downloads/gplreleases/lubuntu-18.04_nest-2.16.0.ova.sha512sum>`_

We continuously aim to improve NEST, implement features, and fix bugs with every new version;
thus, we encourage our users to use the **most recent version of NEST**.


----

NEST is available under the :doc:`GNU General Public License 2 or later <license>`. This means that you can

-  use NEST for your research,
-  modify and improve NEST according to your needs,
-  distribute NEST to others under the same license.
