doc/index.rst, before:

***********************************************
Welcome to the NEST simulator documentation!
***********************************************

:orange:`Introducing NEST 3.0!`
-------------------------------

Our aim with NEST 3.0 is to provide a more intuitive experience with simplified yet versatile handling and manipulation of nodes and connections.


- We have provided an :doc:`overview of NEST 3.0 <guides/nest2_to_nest3/nest2_to_nest3_overview>`, including examples of the new functionality.


- You can also checkout our :doc:`ref_material/nest2_vs_3` to get a comparison between old and new syntax.

----

If you use NEST for your project, don't forget to :doc:`cite NEST <citing-nest>`!

+------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
|                                    |                                       |
|    :doc:`Download <download>`      |  :doc:`Install <installation/index>`  |
|                                    |                                       |
+------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+

NEST is a simulator for **spiking neural network models**, ideal for networks of any size, for example:

1.  Models of information processing e.g., in the visual or auditory cortex of
    mammals,

2.  Models of network activity dynamics, e.g., laminar cortical networks or
    balanced random networks,

3.  Models of learning and plasticity.

**New to NEST?**
    Start here at our :doc:`Getting Started <getting_started>` page


**Have an idea of the type of model you need?**
    Click on one of the images to access our :doc:`model directory <models/index>`:

.. raw:: html

 <embed>

 <a href="models/neurons.html">
    <img src="_static/img/neuron.png" alt="Neuron Models" style="width:150px;height:150px;border:0;">
  </a>
  <a href="models/synapses.html">
    <img src="_static/img/synapse1.png" alt="Synapse Models" style="width:150px;height:150px;border:0;">
  </a>
  <a href="models/devices.html">
    <img src="_static/img/oscilloscope.png" alt="Devices" style="width:150px;height:150px;border:0;">
  </a>
  </embed>

**Create complex networks using the Topology Module or the Microcircuit Model:**

.. raw:: html

  <embed>
  <a href="topology/index.html">
    <img src="_static/img/topology.png" alt="Topology" style="width:150px;height:150px;border:0;">
  </a>
  <a href="microcircuit/index.html">
    <img src="_static/img/microcircuit.png" alt="Microcircuit" style="width:150px;height:150px;border:0;">
  </a>


  </embed>


**Need a different model?**
    Check out how you can :doc:`create you own model <models/create_model>` here.

**Have a question or issue with NEST?**
    See our :doc:`Getting Help <getting_help>` page.

How the documentation is organized
####################################

* :doc:`Tutorials <tutorials/index>` show you step by step instructions using NEST. If you haven't used NEST before, the PyNEST tutorial is a good place to start.

* :doc:`Example Networks <examples/index>`  demonstrate the use of dozens of the neural network models implemented in NEST.

* :doc:`Topical Guides <guides/index>` provide deeper insight into several topics and concepts from :doc:`Parallel Computing <guides/parallel_computing>` to handling :doc:`Gap Junction Simulations <guides/simulations_with_gap_junctions>` and :doc:`setting up a topological network <topology/index>`.

* :doc:`Reference Material <ref_material/index>` provides a quick look up of definitions, functions and terms.

Contribute
###########

* Have you used NEST in an article or presentation? :doc:`Let us know <community>` and we will add it to our list of `publications <https://www.nest-simulator.org/publications/>`_.
  Find out how to :doc:`cite NEST <citing-nest>` in your work.

* If you have any comments or suggestions, please share them on our :doc:`Mailing List <community>`.

* Want to contribute code? Check out our `Developer Space <https://nest.github.io/nest-simulator/>`_ to get started!

* For more info about our larger community and the history of NEST check out the `NEST Initiative <https://www.nest-initiative.org>`_ website

Links to other projects:
-------------------------------------

The  `NeuralEnsemble <http://neuralensemble.org/>`_ is a community-based initiative to promote and co-ordinate open-source software development in neuroscience.
They host numerous software including `PyNN <http://neuralensemble.org/PyNN/>`_, a simulator-independent language for building neuronal network models and `Elephant (Electrophysiology Analysis Toolkit) <http://neuralensemble.org/elephant/>`_, a package for the analysis of neurophysiology data, using Neo data structures.



NEST is available under the :doc:`GNU General Public License 2 or later <license>`. This means that you can

-  use NEST for your research,
-  modify and improve NEST according to your needs,
-  distribute NEST to others under the same license.

Commit message:

Update detailed transition guide link in doc/index.rst

doc/index.rst, after:

***********************************************
Welcome to the NEST simulator documentation!
***********************************************

:orange:`Introducing NEST 3.0!`
-------------------------------

Our aim with NEST 3.0 is to provide a more intuitive experience with simplified yet versatile handling and manipulation of nodes and connections.


- We have provided an :doc:`overview of NEST 3.0 <guides/nest2_to_nest3/nest2_to_nest3_overview>`, including examples of the new functionality.


- You can also check out our :doc:`detailed transition guide <guides/nest2_to_nest3/nest2_to_nest3_detailed_transition_guide>` for an in-depth comparison between old and new syntax.

----

If you use NEST for your project, don't forget to :doc:`cite NEST <citing-nest>`!

+------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
|                                    |                                       |
|    :doc:`Download <download>`      |  :doc:`Install <installation/index>`  |
|                                    |                                       |
+------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+

NEST is a simulator for **spiking neural network models**, ideal for networks of any size, for example:

1.  Models of information processing e.g., in the visual or auditory cortex of
    mammals,

2.  Models of network activity dynamics, e.g., laminar cortical networks or
    balanced random networks,

3.  Models of learning and plasticity.

**New to NEST?**
    Start here at our :doc:`Getting Started <getting_started>` page


**Have an idea of the type of model you need?**
    Click on one of the images to access our :doc:`model directory <models/index>`:

.. raw:: html

 <embed>

 <a href="models/neurons.html">
    <img src="_static/img/neuron.png" alt="Neuron Models" style="width:150px;height:150px;border:0;">
  </a>
  <a href="models/synapses.html">
    <img src="_static/img/synapse1.png" alt="Synapse Models" style="width:150px;height:150px;border:0;">
  </a>
  <a href="models/devices.html">
    <img src="_static/img/oscilloscope.png" alt="Devices" style="width:150px;height:150px;border:0;">
  </a>
  </embed>

**Create complex networks using the Topology Module or the Microcircuit Model:**

.. raw:: html

  <embed>
  <a href="topology/index.html">
    <img src="_static/img/topology.png" alt="Topology" style="width:150px;height:150px;border:0;">
  </a>
  <a href="microcircuit/index.html">
    <img src="_static/img/microcircuit.png" alt="Microcircuit" style="width:150px;height:150px;border:0;">
  </a>


  </embed>


**Need a different model?**
    Check out how you can :doc:`create you own model <models/create_model>` here.

**Have a question or issue with NEST?**
    See our :doc:`Getting Help <getting_help>` page.

How the documentation is organized
####################################

* :doc:`Tutorials <tutorials/index>` show you step by step instructions using NEST. If you haven't used NEST before, the PyNEST tutorial is a good place to start.

* :doc:`Example Networks <examples/index>`  demonstrate the use of dozens of the neural network models implemented in NEST.

* :doc:`Topical Guides <guides/index>` provide deeper insight into several topics and concepts from :doc:`Parallel Computing <guides/parallel_computing>` to handling :doc:`Gap Junction Simulations <guides/simulations_with_gap_junctions>` and :doc:`setting up a topological network <topology/index>`.

* :doc:`Reference Material <ref_material/index>` provides a quick look up of definitions, functions and terms.

Contribute
###########

* Have you used NEST in an article or presentation? :doc:`Let us know <community>` and we will add it to our list of `publications <https://www.nest-simulator.org/publications/>`_.
  Find out how to :doc:`cite NEST <citing-nest>` in your work.

* If you have any comments or suggestions, please share them on our :doc:`Mailing List <community>`.

* Want to contribute code? Check out our `Developer Space <https://nest.github.io/nest-simulator/>`_ to get started!

* For more info about our larger community and the history of NEST check out the `NEST Initiative <https://www.nest-initiative.org>`_ website

Links to other projects:
-------------------------------------

The  `NeuralEnsemble <http://neuralensemble.org/>`_ is a community-based initiative to promote and co-ordinate open-source software development in neuroscience.
They host numerous software including `PyNN <http://neuralensemble.org/PyNN/>`_, a simulator-independent language for building neuronal network models and `Elephant (Electrophysiology Analysis Toolkit) <http://neuralensemble.org/elephant/>`_, a package for the analysis of neurophysiology data, using Neo data structures.



NEST is available under the :doc:`GNU General Public License 2 or later <license>`. This means that you can

-  use NEST for your research,
-  modify and improve NEST according to your needs,
-  distribute NEST to others under the same license.
