doc/contribute/index.rst, before:

Contributing to NEST
====================

NEST draws its strength from the many people that use and improve it. We
are happy to consider your contributions (e.g., new models, bug or
documentation fixes) for addition to the official version of NEST.

Report bugs and request features
--------------------------------

If you find an error in the code or documentaton or want to suggest a feature, submit `an issue on GitHub
<https://github.com/nest/nest-simulator/issues>`_.

Make sure to check that your issue has not already been reported there before creating a new one.

Make changes to code or documentation
-------------------------------------

You can find all the details for our development workflow on the `NEST developer space <http://nest.github.io/nest-simulator>`_.

For making changes to the PyNEST APIs, please see our :doc:`templates_styleguides/pyapi_template`.

Contribute a Python example script
----------------------------------

If you have a Python example network to contribute, please refer to our :doc:`templates_styleguides/example_template` to ensure you cover the required information.

Have a question?
----------------

If you want to get in contact with us, see our :ref:`nest_community` page for ways you can reach us.

Commit message:

Integrate VIM SLI support into Contribute to NEST page

doc/contribute/index.rst, after:

Contributing to NEST
====================

NEST draws its strength from the many people that use and improve it. We
are happy to consider your contributions (e.g., new models, bug or
documentation fixes) for addition to the official version of NEST.

Report bugs and request features
--------------------------------

If you find an error in the code or documentaton or want to suggest a feature, submit `an issue on GitHub
<https://github.com/nest/nest-simulator/issues>`_.

Make sure to check that your issue has not already been reported there before creating a new one.

Make changes to code or documentation
-------------------------------------

You can find all the details for our development workflow on the `NEST developer space <http://nest.github.io/nest-simulator>`_.

For making changes to the PyNEST APIs, please see our :doc:`templates_styleguides/pyapi_template`.

If you use VIM and would like to edit SLI files, please refer to our :doc:`templates_styleguides/vim_support_sli`.

Contribute a Python example script
----------------------------------

If you have a Python example network to contribute, please refer to our :doc:`templates_styleguides/example_template` to ensure you cover the required information.

Have a question?
----------------

If you want to get in contact with us, see our :ref:`nest_community` page for ways you can reach us.
