doc/guides/spatial/index.rst, before:

Spatially-structured networks
=============================

Here you can find how to build complex, layered networks in NEST.

.. note::

  In NEST 2.x spatially-structured networks were in the topology module.
  This module is removed in NEST 3.0, and all functionality of topology
  is now in the main ``nest`` module.

  See the :doc:`guide to NEST 3.0 <../from_nest2_to_nest3>` for more information.

* If you've never used spatially-structured networks before,  we recommend you
  check out our :doc:`PyNEST tutorial on the topic <../../tutorials/pynest_tutorial/part_4_spatially_structured_networks>`

* We also have a :doc:`comprehensive guide into spatially-structured networks <../spatial/guide_spatially_structured_networks>`

* And we have a large selection of **examples**, including a detailed example using the Hill and Tononi model.
  Check them out in our :doc:`Spatial networks examples <../../examples/index>` section.

.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   :maxdepth: 1

   ../../tutorials/pynest_tutorial/part_4_spatially_structured_networks
   ../../examples/index

Commit message:

Fix transition guide link in guides/spatial/index.rst

doc/guides/spatial/index.rst, after:

Spatially-structured networks
=============================

Here you can find how to build complex, layered networks in NEST.

.. note::

  In NEST 2.x spatially-structured networks were in the topology module.
  This module is removed in NEST 3.0, and all functionality of topology
  is now in the main ``nest`` module.

  See the :doc:`../nest2_to_nest3/nest2_to_nest3_detailed_transition_guide` for more information.

* If you've never used spatially-structured networks before,  we recommend you
  check out our :doc:`PyNEST tutorial on the topic <../../tutorials/pynest_tutorial/part_4_spatially_structured_networks>`

* We also have a :doc:`comprehensive guide into spatially-structured networks <../spatial/guide_spatially_structured_networks>`

* And we have a large selection of **examples**, including a detailed example using the Hill and Tononi model.
  Check them out in our :doc:`Spatial networks examples <../../examples/index>` section.

.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   :maxdepth: 1

   ../../tutorials/pynest_tutorial/part_4_spatially_structured_networks
   ../../examples/index
