Part 2: Populations of neurons
==============================

Introduction
------------

In this handout we look at creating and parameterising batches of
``neurons``, and connecting them. When you have worked through this
material, you will know how to:

-  create populations of neurons with specific parameters
-  set model parameters before creation
-  define models with customised parameters
-  randomise parameters after creation
-  make random connections between populations
-  set up devices to start, stop and save data to file
-  reset simulations

For more information on the usage of PyNEST, please see the other
sections of this primer:

-  :doc:`Part 1: Neurons and simple neural
   networks <part_1_neurons_and_simple_neural_networks>`
-  :doc:`Part 3: Connecting networks with
   synapses <part_3_connecting_networks_with_synapses>`
-  :doc:`Part 4: Topologically structured
   networks <part_4_topologically_structured_networks>`

More advanced examples can be found at `Example
Networks <http://www.nest-simulator.org/more-example-networks/>`__, or
have a look at at the source directory of your NEST installation in the
subdirectory: ``pynest/examples/``.

Creating parameterised populations of nodes
-------------------------------------------

In the previous handout, we introduced the function
``Create(model, n=1, params=None)``. Its mandatory argument is the model
name, which determines what type the nodes to be created should be. Its
two optional arguments are ``n``, which gives the number of nodes to be
created (default: 1) and ``params``, which is a dictionary giving the
parameters with which the nodes should be initialised. So the most basic
way of creating a batch of identically parameterised neurons is to
exploit the optional arguments of ``Create()``:

::

    ndict = {"I_e": 200.0, "tau_m": 20.0}
    neuronpop = nest.Create("iaf_psc_alpha", 100, params=ndict)

The variable ``neuronpop`` is a list of all the ids of the created
neurons.

Parameterising the neurons at creation is more efficient than using
``SetStatus()`` after creation, so try to do this wherever possible.

We can also set the parameters of a neuron model *before* creation,
which allows us to define a simulation more concisely in many cases. If
many individual batches of neurons are to be produced, it is more
convenient to set the defaults of the model, so that all neurons created
from that model will automatically have the same parameters. The
defaults of a model can be queried with ``GetDefaults(model)``, and set
with ``SetDefaults(model, params)``, where ``params`` is a dictionary
containing the desired parameter/value pairings. For example:

::

    ndict = {"I_e": 200.0, "tau_m": 20.0}
    nest.SetDefaults("iaf_psc_alpha", ndict)
    neuronpop1 = nest.Create("iaf_psc_alpha", 100)
    neuronpop2 = nest.Create("iaf_psc_alpha", 100)
    neuronpop3 = nest.Create("iaf_psc_alpha", 100)

The three populations are now identically parameterised with the usual
model default values for all parameters except ``I_e`` and ``tau_m``,
which have the values specified in the dictionary ``ndict``.

If batches of neurons should be of the same model but using different
parameters, it is handy to use ``CopyModel(existing, new, params=None)``
to make a customised version of a neuron model with its own default
parameters. This function is an effective tool to help you write clearer
simulation scripts, as you can use the name of the model to indicate
what role it plays in the simulation. Set up your customised model in
two steps using ``SetDefaults()``:

::

    edict = {"I_e": 200.0, "tau_m": 20.0}
    nest.CopyModel("iaf_psc_alpha", "exc_iaf_psc_alpha")
    nest.SetDefaults("exc_iaf_psc_alpha", edict)

or in one step:

::

    idict = {"I_e": 300.0}
    nest.CopyModel("iaf_psc_alpha", "inh_iaf_psc_alpha", params=idict)

Either way, the newly defined models can now be used to generate neuron
populations and will also be returned by the function ``Models()``.

::

    epop1 = nest.Create("exc_iaf_psc_alpha", 100)
    epop2 = nest.Create("exc_iaf_psc_alpha", 100)
    ipop1 = nest.Create("inh_iaf_psc_alpha", 30)
    ipop2 = nest.Create("inh_iaf_psc_alpha", 30)

It is also possible to create populations with an inhomogeneous set of
parameters. You would typically create the complete set of parameters,
depending on experimental constraints, and then create all the neurons
in one go. To do this supply a list of dictionaries of the same length
as the number of neurons (or synapses) created:

::

    parameter_list = [{"I_e": 200.0, "tau_m": 20.0}, {"I_e": 150.0, "tau_m": 30.0}]
    epop3 = nest.Create("exc_iaf_psc_alpha", 2, parameter_list)

Setting parameters for populations of neurons
---------------------------------------------

It is not always possible to set all parameters for a neuron model at or
before creation. A classic example of this is when some parameter should
be drawn from a random distribution. Of course, it is always possible to
make a loop over the population and set the status of each one:

::

    Vth=-55.
    Vrest=-70.
    for neuron in epop1:
        nest.SetStatus([neuron], {"V_m": Vrest+(Vth-Vrest)*numpy.random.rand()})

However, ``SetStatus()`` expects a list of nodes and can set the
parameters for each of them, which is more efficient, and thus to be
preferred. One way to do it is to give a list of dictionaries which is
the same length as the number of nodes to be parameterised, for example
using a list comprehension:

::

    dVms =  [{"V_m": Vrest+(Vth-Vrest)\*numpy.random.rand()} for x in epop1]
    nest.SetStatus(epop1, dVms)

If we only need to randomise one parameter then there is a more concise
way by passing in the name of the parameter and a list of its desired
values. Once again, the list must be the same size as the number of
nodes to be parameterised:

::

    Vms = Vrest+(Vth-Vrest)\*numpy.random.rand(len(epop1))
    nest.SetStatus(epop1, "V_m", Vms)

Note that we are being rather lax with random numbers here. Really we
have to take more care with them, especially if we are using multiple
threads or distributing over multiple machines. We will worry about this
later.

Generating populations of neurons with deterministic connections
----------------------------------------------------------------

In the previous handout two neurons were connected using synapse
specifications. In this section we extend this example to two
populations of ten neurons each.

::

    import pylab
    import nest
    pop1 = nest.Create("iaf_psc_alpha", 10)
    nest.SetStatus(pop1, {"I_e": 376.0})
    pop2 = nest.Create("iaf_psc_alpha", 10)
    multimeter = nest.Create("multimeter", 10)
    nest.SetStatus(multimeter, {"withtime":True, "record_from":["V_m"]})

If no connectivity pattern is specified, the populations are connected
via the default rule, namely ``all_to_all``. Each neuron of ``pop1`` is
connected to every neuron in ``pop2``, resulting in :math:`10^2`
connections.

::

    nest.Connect(pop1, pop2, syn_spec={"weight":20.0})

Alternatively, the neurons can be connected with the ``one_to_one``.
This means that the first neuron in ``pop1`` is connected to the first
neuron in ``pop2``, the second to the second, etc., creating ten
connections in total.

::

    nest.Connect(pop1, pop2, "one_to_one", syn_spec={"weight":20.0, "delay":1.0})

Finally, the multimeters are connected using the default rule

::

    nest.Connect(multimeter, pop2)

Here we have just used very simple connection schemes. Connectivity
patterns requiring the specification of further parameters, such as
in-degree or connection probabilities, must be defined in a dictionary
containing the key ``rule`` and the key for parameters associated to the
rule. Please see :doc:`Connection management <../../guides/connection_management>`_
for an illustrated guide to the usage of ``Connect``.

Connecting populations with random connections
----------------------------------------------

In the previous handout we looked at the connectivity patterns
``one_to_one`` and ``all_to_all``. However, we often want to look at
networks with a sparser connectivity than all-to-all. Here we introduce
four connectivity patterns which generate random connections between two
populations of neurons.

The connection rule ``fixed_indegree`` allows us to create ``n`` random
connections for each neuron in the target population ``post`` to a
randomly selected neuron from the source population ``pre``. The
variables ``weight`` and ``delay`` can be left unspecified, in which
case the default weight and delay are used. Alternatively we can set
them in the ``syn_spec`` , so each created connection has the same
weight and delay. Here is an example:

::

    d = 1.0
    Je = 2.0
    Ke = 20
    Ji = -4.0
    Ki = 12
    conn_dict_ex = {"rule": "fixed_indegree", "indegree": Ke}
    conn_dict_in = {"rule": "fixed_indegree", "indegree": Ki}
    syn_dict_ex = {"delay": d, "weight": Je}
    syn_dict_in = {"delay": d, "weight": Ji}
    nest.Connect(epop1, ipop1, conn_dict_ex, syn_dict_ex)
    nest.Connect(ipop1, epop1, conn_dict_in, syn_dict_in)

Now each neuron in the target population ``ipop1`` has ``Ke`` incoming
random connections chosen from the source population ``epop1`` with
weight ``Je`` and delay ``d``, and each neuron in the target population
``epop1`` has ``Ki`` incoming random connections chosen from the source
population ``ipop1`` with weight ``Ji`` and delay ``d``.

The connectivity rule ``fixed_outdegree`` works in analogous fashion,
with ``n`` connections (keyword ``outdegree``) being randomly selected
from the target population ``post`` for each neuron in the source
population ``pre``. For reasons of efficiency, particularly when
simulating in a distributed fashion, it is better to use
``fixed_indegree`` if possible.

Another connectivity pattern available is ``fixed_total_number``. Here
``n`` connections (keyword ``N``) are created by randomly drawing source
neurons from the populations ``pre`` and target neurons from the
population ``post``.

When choosing the connectivity rule ``pairwise_bernoulli`` connections
are generated by iterating through all possible source-target pairs and
creating each connection with the probability ``p`` (keyword ``p``).

In addition to the rule specific parameters ``indegree``, ``outdegree``,
``N`` and ``p``, the ``conn_spec`` can contain the keywords ``autapses``
and ``multapses`` (set to ``False`` or ``True``) allowing or forbidding
self-connections and multiple connections between two neurons,
respectively.

Note that for all connectivity rules, it is perfectly legitimate to have
the same population simultaneously in the role of ``pre`` and ``post``.

For more information on connecting neurons, please read the
documentation of the ``Connect`` function and consult the guide at
:doc:`Connection management <../../guides/connection_management>`.

Specifying the behaviour of devices
-----------------------------------

All devices implement a basic timing capacity; the parameter ``start``
(default 0) determines the beginning of the device's activity and the
parameter ``stop`` (default: :math:`∞`) its end. These values are taken
relative to the value of ``origin`` (default: 0). For example, the
following example creates a ``poisson_generator`` which is only active
between 100 and 150ms:

::

    pg = nest.Create("poisson_generator")
    nest.SetStatus(pg, {"start": 100.0, "stop": 150.0})

This functionality is useful for setting up experimental protocols with
stimuli that start and stop at particular times.

So far we have accessed the data recorded by devices directly, by
extracting the value of ``events``. However, for larger or longer
simulations, we may prefer to write the data to file for later analysis
instead. All recording devices allow the specification of where data is
stored over the parameters ``to_memory`` (default: ``True``),
``to_file`` (default: ``False``) and ``to_screen`` (default: ``False``).
The following code sets up a ``multimeter`` to record data to a named
file:

::

    recdict = {"to_memory" : False, "to_file" : True, "label" : "epop_mp"}
    mm1 = nest.Create("multimeter", params=recdict)

If no name for the file is specified using the ``label`` parameter, NEST
will generate its own using the name of the device, and its id. If the
simulation is multithreaded or distributed, multiple files will be
created, one for each process and/or thread. For more information on how
to customise the behaviour and output format of recording devices,
please read the documentation for ``RecordingDevice``.

Resetting simulations
---------------------

It often occurs that we need to reset a simulation. For example, if you
are developing a script, then you may need to run it from the
``ipython`` console multiple times before you are happy with its
behaviour. In this case, it is useful to use the function
``ResetKernel()``. This gets rid of all nodes you have created, any
customised models you created, and resets the internal clock to 0.

The other main use of resetting is when you need to run a simulation in
a loop, for example to test different parameter settings. In this case
there is typically no need to throw out the whole network and create and
connect everything, it is enough to re-parameterise the network. A good
strategy here is to create and connect your network outside the loop,
and then carry out the parametrisation, simulation and data collection
steps within the loop. Here it is often helpful to call the function
``ResetNetwork()`` within each loop iteration. It resets all nodes to
their default configuration and wipes the data from recording devices.

Command overview
----------------

These are the new functions we introduced for the examples in this
handout.

Getting and setting basic settings and parameters of NEST
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  ``GetKernelStatus(keys=none)``

   Obtain parameters of the simulation kernel. Returns:

   -  Parameter dictionary if called without argument
   -  Single parameter value if called with single parameter name
   -  List of parameter values if called with list of parameter names
   -  Set parameters for the simulation kernel.

Models
~~~~~~

-  ``GetDefaults(model)``

   Return a dictionary with the default parameters of the given
   ``model``, specified by a string.

-  ``SetDefaults(model, params)`` 

   Set the default parameters of the given ``model`` to the values
   specified in the ``params`` dictionary.

-  ``CopyModel(existing, new, params=None)``

   Create a ``new`` model by copying an ``existing`` one. Default
   parameters can be given as ``params``, or else are taken from
   ``existing``.

Simulation control
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  ``ResetKernel()`` 

   Reset the simulation kernel. This will destroy the network as well as
   all custom models created with ``CopyModel()``. The parameters of
   built-in models are reset to their defaults. Calling this function is
   equivalent to restarting NEST.

-  ``ResetNetwork()`` 

   Reset all nodes and connections to the defaults of their respective
   model.
